# Scopes & Closures

## Chapter 1: What is scope?

Scope: Well-defined set of rules for storing variables in some location and finding them later

### Compilation

- Tokenizing/Lexing: turn string of characters into meaningful chunks
- Parsing: turn tokens into tree of nested elements => Abstract Syntax Tree
- Code-Generation: turn the AST into executable code

For JS, compilation occurs as it happens, microseconds before executed.

### Understanding Scope

- Engine: compilation and execution
- Compiler: lexing, parsing and code generation
- Scope: collects and maintain lookup list of declared variables and enforces rules of accessibility

*LHS vs RHS lookups*
LHS is assignment. RHS is get value.
Engine starts at currently executing Scope and keeps going out one level.

LHS will assign to global scope, if not found and not in strict mode.
RHS will throw reference error.

## Chapter 2 Lexical Scope
JS employs Lexical scope. Bash employs dynamic scope.

### Lex-time
- lexical scope is based on where variables and blocks of scope are authored by you at write time
- scope look-up stops once it finds the first match
- lexical scope is only defined by where the function was declared

cheating lexical scope
- eval
- with

## Chapter 3 Function vs Block Scope
scope: bucket of identifiers defined at author time

### Scope from Functions
Function scope encourages idea that all variables belong to the function and can be used and reused throughout the entirety of the function

*Use case*: hiding “private” methods by nesting them in other functions that use them
- follow principle of least privilege
- can also use an object to namespace
- create a scope with IIFE

*anonymous vs named functions*
function expressions can be anonymous, but function declarations cannot
- anonymous functions have no useful name to display in stack traces
- without a name, function cannot refer to itself for recursion
- more readable
- i.e. always name your function expressions

* blocks as scopes*
- `let` attaches the variable declaration to the scope of whatever block it’s contained in
- declarations made with `let` will not hoist to the entire scope of the block they appear in
- const also block-scoped variable that cannot be reassigned
