# Chapter 4
## Output for client callers of code

### 4.1 Write total functions
Return a collection of results in all cases

Ex. of finding words and having different return values of nil, string, and array

**Total function** is a function defined for all possible inputs. In ruby, function that never returns nil or "a method which, if it can return a collection for some inputs, will be guaranteed to return a collection for all possible inputs" p. 211

Keep interface predictable. If using guard clause, must also return empty array.

Questions:
- Are there cases to return nil? Are there benefits? 
- Is there a case for doing soemthing similar with hashes?

### 4.2 Callback instead of returning 
Conditionally yield to a block on completion rather than returning a value

#### CQS command query separation
Simplifying principle of OO design that advises us to write methods which either have side effects or return values but never both.

Ex. of book purchase imports. Have the method take a block which is called on success.

Questions: 
-  What happens if the import fails?

### 4.3 Represent failure with a benign value 
Return a default value such as an empty string

Ex. for tweets display

Questions:
- Do we agree that nil is the worst possible representation of failure? No meaning and breaks things.
- Seems like this should only be used for views...do we agree? Are there other times we would want to fail this way? 

### 4.4 Represent failure with a special case object 
Seems very similar to null object pattern
Repetitive

### 4.5 Return a status object 
Can be more nuanced than success and failure (true or false)
Use a status object to store more info, like the raised exception.
Removes the chance of misspelling an outcome symbol

### 4.6 Yield a status object
Seemed somewhat similar to base service and controllers 
Callbacks within each method. A series of callbacks 

Questions: 
- How do we feel about this pattern? 
- Verbose or exotic?!?

### 4.7 Signal early termination with throw
Throw to signal early termination and catch to handle it 
Throw a Done exception then Rescue from done
Throw and catch work similar to exceptions but don't connote error 
Throw symbol, catch on the client side 
Careful not to overuse it

Questions:
- Why not use `break`?
- What if we forget to catch on client side?
