
# Chapter 12: Effective Troubleshooting 

> “Be warned that being a n expert is more than understanding how a system is supposed to work. Expertise is gained by investigating why a system doesn’t work” - Brian Redman

Explaining how to troubleshoot is difficult but it is learnable and teachable.

- Effective troubleshooting usually requires:
- Knowledge of how to troubleshoot generically
- General Knowledge of the system 


## Theory
The formal definition of troubleshooting process is an application of the hypothetico-deductive- method, or in simpler terms, given observations about a system juxtaposed with the systems expected behavior, one can hypothesize about potential causes of failures.



There are two ways to test hypothesis:
- Compare observed state of the system against hypothesis to confirm if theory is correct,
- Change the system in a controlled way and observe the results. (Try stuff and see what happens) 
- How dangerous is this to do if you do not have proper working knowledge of the system?
- How do I know that what I am doing isn’t making things worse?
- When is okay to take a risk like this? 

## In Practice
Problem Report 

An effective problem report will tell what the expected behavior is, what the actual behavior is and if possible how to reproduce said behavior. It may be good practice to create a bug report for every issue. This ensures that there is a log of investigation and remediation activities for future reference. (i.e creates a runbook for posterity for known issues). Problems should not be reporting to a specific person but rather because it would concentrate on how to solve specific problems amongst a handful of people as opposed to across the entire team.

## Triage

Assess issues by their severity and create an appropriate response. The priority should be making the system work as well as it can under the given circumstances. This may include actions that are counterintuitive; ie stopping the system for executing if the system is corrupting data. 

## Examine

Each component of the system should be examined to understand whether or not the system is behaving correctly. An effective means of examining a system is to have metrics and logging in place. Exposing the current state of the system is also an effective tool for examination. Having endpoints that tell the current state of the system is useful for understanding what is going wrong.

## Diagnose

In a multilayer system it is useful to start from one end of the system systematically moving toward the other. The components which make up the system should have well defined interfaces and known output given specific input. This makes the individual components that make up the system easy to debug. 

## Emergency Response 
Things will break and when they do it is important to remember not to panic. It is important to make sure that 

## Test-Induced Emergency
This type of emergency is characterized when the system is deliberately broken in order to see how it fails. Changes are then made to stop the failure from occurring again.

## Change-Induced Emergency 
As a system grows in complexity, it becomes harder to understand how changes to configuration can affect the overall system.

## Process-Induced Emergency
Sometimes the processes introduced that are designed to reduce toil can be a source of contention within the system. The efficiency of the system can cause issues to propagate faster then they would’ve otherwise.

It is important to learn from all incidents that occur within the system. Having open and honest discussions about what went wrong and take actions to prevent the same issues from occurring in the future. One way of doing this is by organizing and publishing postmortems.

Ask hard and improbable questions. This will help to prepare for unlikely situations that may compromise the system. Don’t rely on assumptions or what you can’t or haven’t tested.

## Managing Incidents 
- There are a number of things that can impede the effective managing of an incident.
- Sharp Focus on a technical problem
- Being too zoomed in can be detrimental to understanding what the bigger picture of a system malfunction.
- Poor communication 
- Not knowing the actions that others are taking can be detrimental when trying to resolve a problem 
- Freelancing
- Making changes on your own without coordinating with others can exacerbate the problem.
- Elements of Incident Management Process
- Recursive Separation of Responsibilities
- Everyone involved in an incident should know the role that they are playing in its mitigation. Knowing what the boundaries are gives individual autonomy to explore the bounds of the problem given the context they are assigned.

## Incident Command
The Incident Commander “holds the high level state about the incident”. The commander is responsible for assigning responsibilities according to priority and need.

## Operational Work 
“The Ops lead works with the incident commander to respond to the incident by applying operational tools to the task at hand. The operations team should be the only group modifying the system during an incident.”

Note: Hadn’t thought of the Incident Commander and the Ops lead as two separate roles up until this point.

## Communication
Communicate with the stakeholders and keep the incident document up to date and accurate.

## Planning 
Supports Ops by dealing with longer term issues such as filing bugs and arranging hand offs and tracking how the system has diverged from the norm (Does Terraform help us with the latter?)

## A Recognized Command Post
It is important to have a central place where parties interested in a system outage can communicate (I believe that slack serves this purpose for us).

## Live Incident State Document 
The Incident Commander most important responsibility is to keep a living incident document. The living doc can be messy but it must be functional.

## Clear, Live Handoff 
When responsibility of Incident Commander is passed off it is important that all pertinent facts are understood by the incoming party as well as making it clear that the responsibilities of handling the incident now firmly rest with the new Incident Commander.

## When to Declare an Incident
- It is better to declare an incident early and then find a simple fix then to open one when in the throes of the problem. If any of the following statements are true the event is an incident:
- Do you need to involve a second team in fixing the problem?
- Is the outage visible to customers?
- Is the issue unresolved even after an hour’s concentrated analysis?









