# Site Reliability Engineering

## 18. Software Engineering in SRE

- SREs adopt a product-based mindset w internal customers & roadmap > one-off solutions & quick hacks
- related to overall directive of maintaining uptime and keeping latency low, but can take many forms
  - rollout mechanisms
  - monitoring
  - development environments built on dynamic server compositions


### Why is software engineering within SRE important?

- breadth & depth of Google production experience at massive scale allows expertise in developing with scalability, graceful degradation during failure, & ability to easily interface with other infrastructure or tools
- strong feedback loop as fellow SREs are target users
- guiding principle: *"team size should not scale directly with service growth"*
  - achieving linear team growth w exponential service growth requires perpetual automation work and efforts to streamline tools & processes
- provide career development opportunities for SREs
- balances interrupts & on call work


### Auxon Case Study

- tool to automate capacity planning

###### Traditional Capacity Planning

1. Collect demand forecasts.
2. Devise build and allocation plans
3. Review & sign off plan
4. Deploy & configure resources

- Brittle by nature. Can be disrupted by any change. Laborious and imprecise.
- Humans are terrible at binpacking and finding optimal solution

###### Intent-based Capacity Planning & Auxon

- Reverse engineer back from the concrete requirements to the driving reason why.
    - I want 50 cores in clusters X, Y, and Z for service Foo.
    - I want a 50-core footprint in any 3 clusters in geographic region YYY for service Foo.
    - I want to meet service Foo’s demand in each geographic region, and have N + 2 redundancy.
    - I want to run service Foo at 5 nines of reliability.
- Dependencies and their requirements make everything even more complex
- Auxon collects intent-based descriptions of resource requirements & prioritizations and formulates an allocation plan
- SRE team is both the producer and consumer of their software. Real world production experience and difficulties (spreadsheets) helped guide the product

- Don’t focus on perfection and purity of solution, especially if the bounds of the problem aren’t well known. Launch and iterate.
- Initial Auxon solver was a "Stupid Solver", a very unoptimized version to validate the vision. Start there.
- Undertake initial "approximate" work with eye for the future. May be naive implemenation today, but create a pathway to enhancements and changes.
- Fuzzy requirements (integrations with other rapidly changing automation tooling) requires building the software with a large degree of flexibility. Built Auxon to be tool agnostic for integrations.

#### Raise Awareness and Driving Adoption

- large effort to drive awareness and adoption
- consistent and coherent approach
- user advocacy
- sponsorship of senior engineers and management after demonstrating value

#### Set expecatations

- easy to imagine utopian end state of product. instead, focus on *minimum success criteria*
- projects lose credibility by promising too much. demonstrate steady, incremental progress increases confidence in your team's ability to deliver useful software

#### Identify appropriate customers

- targeted teams with *no* capacity planning tools. most open to adoption and feels the pain.
- early success turns customers to advocates for the tool
- developed case studies & demonstrated time savings

#### Customer service

- provide white glove service in the beginning
- assuage fears, change is scary.
- demonstrate reduction of toil and greater ownership by the team

### Designing at the right level

- *agnosticism* - write software to be generalized. customers not required to commit to any specific tool to start using the Auxon framework.
- 100% adoption doesn't need to be the goal, every use case is different.

### Team Dynamics

- Seed team with generalists who can get up to speed quickly w engineers w breadth of knowledge and experience.
- Partner w in house experts (or outsourced & consultants) once project is off the ground

### Fostering Software Engineering in SRE

- How to pick a project to go from one off tool to full fledged project?
  - engineers w first hand experience in the domain
  - target user base that's highly technical and can provide strong signal bug reports
  - noticeable benefits such as reducing toil for SREs, improving infrastructure, or streamlining a complex process.
- poor candidates:
  - touches many moving parts
  - all or nothing approach (no iterative design)
  - overly specific and not generalizable to the whole org
 
### Successfully building software engineering culture in SRE: Staffing & Development Time

- SREs are often generalists, but often not part of product team or think about customer facing requests
- partner w engineers, TPMs, & PMs with user facing experience
- *dedicated, noninterrupted, project work time is essential*
- end results:
  - grass root effort in spare time
  - formal project through structured process
  - executive sponsorship to expand into full software development effort
- important SREs continue to work with whole org to remain in touch with production


## 28. Accelerating SREs to On-Call and Beyond

### How to grow SREs / Proper Training

#### Recommended
- Designing concrete, sequential learning experiences for students to follow
- Encouraging reverse engineering, statistical thinking, and working from fundamental principles
- Celebrating the analysis of failure by suggesting postmortems for students to read
- Creating contained but realistic breakages for students to fix using real monitoring and tooling
- Role-playing theoretical disasters as a group, to intermingle a team’s problem-solving approaches
- Enabling students to shadow their on-call rotation early, comparing notes with the on-caller
- Pairing students with expert SREs to revise targeted sections of the on-call training plan
- Carving out nontrivial project work for students to undertake, allowing them to gain partial ownership in the stack

#### Anti Patterns
- Deluging students with menial work (e.g., alert/ticket triage) to train them; "trial by fire"
- Training strictly through operator procedures, checklists, and playbooks
- Treating outages as secrets to be buried in order to avoid blame
- Having the first chance to fix something only occur after a student is already on-call
- Creating experts on the team whose techniques and knowledge are compartmentalized
- Pushing students into being primary on-call before they achieve a holistic understanding of their service
- Treating on-call training plans as static and untouchable except by subject matter experts
- Awarding all new project work to the most senior SREs, leaving junior SREs to pick up the scraps


- Training should focus on concepts, principles, reasoning, reverse engineering, and working from first principles instead of rote knowledge.

#### Targeted Project Work, Not Menial Work

- first project for junior SRE should take them through the whole stack.
- allow them to contribute and learn at the same time
- now has ownership going forward and builds trust with senior engineers

#### Creating Stellar Reverse Engineers and Improvisational Thinkers

- In the course of their jobs, they will come across systems they’ve never seen before, so they need to have strong reverse engineering skills.
  - teach diagnostic and debugging tools and how to draw inferences from the information this reveals.
- At scale, there will be anomalies that are hard to detect, so they’ll need the ability to think statistically, rather than procedurally, to uncloak problems
    - SRE's job is pruning a massive decision tree of how to react during an incident
    - Teach how to construct hypotheses that can be tested and narrow down the decision tree
- When standard operating procedures break down, they’ll need to be able to improvise fully.
  - ability to zoom out and use analytical thinking to find solutions

- Exercise: team takes over a service they have no familiarity with and reverse engineer it to run it


#### Five Practices for Aspiring On-Callers

1. A Hunger for Failure: Reading and Sharing Postmortems
2. Disaster Role Playing
3. Break Real Things, Fix Real Things
4. Documentation as Apprenticeship
5. Shadow On-Call Early and Often

- Do not dump postmortems on junior folks, postmortems are important and should be treated so.
- As SRE, you have to scale up your humans faster than you scale your machines

## 29. Dealing with Interrupts

#### Managing Operational Load

Types of Operational Load:
- Pages
  - Managed by dedicated on call engineer
  - Responds to pages and manages resulting incident or outage
  - In order to minimize interruption & avoid bystander effect, shifts are staffed with one person and a seconday.
- Tickets
  - Oncall engineers may work on tickets when not responding to incident
  - Other approaches include ad hoc / autodistributed / or one person fields tickets
- Ongoing operational responsibilities
  - pushes, feature flag flips, etc


- Goal is to preserve cognitive flow for as much of the team as possible
- Two ways to cognitive flow:
  - Creative and engaged. Locked into a project for long periods of time.
  - Angry birds. Performing tasks they know how to do. Chasing down causes of problems.

- For most stressed-out on-call engineers, stress is caused either by pager volume, or because they’re treating on-call as an interrupt. They’re trying to code or work on projects while simultaneously being on-call or on full-time interrupts. These engineers exist in a state of constant interruption, or interruptability. This working environment is extremely stressful.
- when a person is concentrating full-time on interrupts, *interrupts stop being interrupts.*
- *When you’re doing interrupts, your projects are a distraction.*

#### Polarizing Time

- there are ways that a team can manage interrupt response so that more people (on average) can come into work in the morning and feel undistractible.
- To avoid constant occurrences of productivity loss, aim for polarized time between work styles, with each work period lasting as long as possible. Ideally, this time period is a week, but a day or even a half-day may be more practical. This strategy also fits in with the complementary concept of make time 


#### Oncall, Tickets, & Interrupts

- The primary on-call engineer should focus solely on on-call work. If the pager is quiet for your service, tickets or other interrupt-based work that can be abandoned fairly quickly should be part of on-call duties. When an engineer is on-call for a week, that week should be written off as far as project work is concerned. If a project is too important to let slip by a week, that person shouldn’t be on-call. Escalate in order to assign someone else to the on-call shift. A person should never be expected to be on-call and also make progress on projects (or anything else with a high context switching cost).
- If you currently assign tickets randomly to victims on your team, stop. Doing so is extremely disrespectful of your team’s time, and works completely counter to the principle of not being interruptible as much as possible.
- Tickets should be a full-time role, for an amount of time that’s manageable for a person.
- Sometimes when a person isn’t on interrupts, the team receives an interrupt that the person is uniquely qualified to handle. 
- Actually analyze tickets. Fix root causes of tickets and hand them off to the next person on ticket duty.
- Reguarly scrub for tickets to identify general trends or large amounts of tickets that could be fixed at the root cause

#### Respect yourself, as well as your customers

- Your team sets the level of service provided by your service.
- It’s OK to push back some of the effort onto your customers.
- if you support a particularly flaky tool that doesn’t have many developer resources, and a small number of needy customers use it, consider other options.
- If there are particular steps for an interrupt that are time-consuming or tricky, but don’t require your privileges to accomplish, consider using policy to push the request back to the requestor.
