# Site Reliability Engineering

## 30: Embedding an SRE to Recover from Operational Overload

- Burdensome amount of ops work is especially dangerous because the SRE team might burn out or be unable to make progress on project work.
- Comes at the cost of time available to improve services, scalability and reliability.
- Transfer an SRE into an overloaded team.

### Phase 1: Learn the Service and Get Context

- To learn process and habbits that contribute to a services scalability.
- More tickets should not require more SREs.


##### Ops Mode Versus Nonlinear Scaling

- **Ops Mode** refers to a certain method of keeping a service running.
- SREs should focus on writing software or eliminating scalability concerns so that the # of SREs do not increase with function load of service.
- Their job is to make the service work, not to shield development teams from the alerts.
- A 100 request/second service can turn into a 10k request/second service in a year.

#### Identify the Largest Sources of Stress

- You can fall into ops mode from focusing on quickly addressing emergencies instead of **HOW** to reduce the amount of emergencies.

#### Identify Kindling

- Maybe a new subsystem that isn't designed to be self managing.

##### Knowledge gaps

- In large teams, people can overspecialize without immediate consequence.
- They run the risk of not having a broader knowledge for on-call support and other critical team needs.

##### Services developed by SRE that are quietly increasing in importance

- Small in scale and endorsed by 1+ SRE.

##### Strong dependence on "the next big thing"

- People might ignore problems for months at a time, because the believe in the new best thing they are building now that hypothectically fixes it.

##### Common alerts that aren't diagnosed by either the dev team or SREs

- Investigate alerts fully or fix the alerting rules if they are distracting your teamates from fixing the real problems.

##### Any service with a capactiy plan that is effectively "Add more servers: our servers running out of memory last night"

- Capacity should be pro-active not reactive.

##### Postmoretms that only have action items for rolling back the specific changes that caused an outage.

- Change code back to **THIS** instead of figuring out why **That** failed or didn't work as expected.

##### Any serving-critical component for which the existing SREs respond to questions by saying, "We don't know anything about that; the devs own it"

- You need to know at least the conequences of the said component when it breaks or fails and needs fixing.

### Phase 2: Sharing Context

- Lay groundwork for improvement using best practices

#### Write a Good Postmortem for the team

- Come up with blameless postmortem documents
- The *"Why me?"* mentality is most likely caused by a team who believes the postmortem process is retaliatory.

#### Sort fires According to Type

- Two types of fires in this simplified-for-convenience model:
  1. Ops work or toil fires shouldn't exist.
  2. Fires that cause stress and/or furious typing are part of the job.
- Sort the team's fires into toil and not-toils in a list.
- Present list to te team and discuss action plans.

### Phase 3: Driving Change

- Team health is a process.
- Can't be solved with heroic effort.

#### Start with the Basics

- Teams struggling with the distinction between the SRE and traditional ops model are generally unable to articulate why certain aspects of the team's code, processes, or culture bother them.
- First goal should be writing SLOs, if non exist.

#### Get Help Clearing Kindling

- Resist the urge to fix issues yourself that you identify.
- Find useful work that can be accomplished by one team member.
- Serve as the reviewer for the code changes and document revisions.

#### Explain Your Reasoning

- Be ready to explain your reasons and during the the middle of a weekly production meeting unexpectadly.

#### Ask Leading Questions

- Try to ask questions in a way that encourages people to think about the basic principles.


## 31: Communication and Collaboration in SRE

- SRE is not a command-and-control organization.
- Owe allegiance to a least two masters: service or infrastructure SRE teams.
- API-as-contract metaphor is relevant for collaboration, both among SRE teams and between SRE and product development teams.

### Communications: Production Meetings

- Although literature about running effective meetings abounds, it's difficult to find someone who's lucky enough to only have useful, effective meetings. This is equally true for SRE.
- **production meetings** are more useful than the average. It is a special kind of meeting where an SRE team carefully articulates to itself --and to its invitees-- the state of the service(s) in their charge, so as to increase general awareness among everyone who cares, and to improve the operation of the service(s).
- **production meetings** typicall happen on a weekly cadence.
- Usually last 30 to 60 minutes.
- Should have a chair in the meeting. Best to have a rotating chair.

#### Agenda

##### Upcoming production changes

- Default to enabling change instead of stopping change.

##### Metrics

- talking about core metrics of the system in question (i.e. SLOs).
- Some teams track resource usage and efficiancy

##### Outages

- Addresses problems of approximately postmortem size, and an indispensable tool for learning and analysis.

##### Paging events

- breaking the page events into a tactical view.

##### Nonpaging events

- Includes items that are:
  1. An issue that probably should have page, but didn't
  2. An issue that is not pageable but requires attention
  3. An issue that is not pageable and does not require attention

##### Prior action items

- Track improvements or work done on previous action items to validate consistent devlivery to add credibility and trust as a team to stackholders.

#### Attendance

- Is cumpulsory
- Major stakeholders should also attend.
- When there are too many teams or busy-yet-crucial attendees to invite:
  1. Single representative from the product dev team or ocmmitment to read or comment on agenda minutes.
  2. Nominate a subset of representatives for large teams
  3. Busy-yet-crucial attendees provide async feedback / guidance using a prefilled agenda technique

### Collaboration within SRE

- Fluid definitions for "team" at Google.

#### Team Composition

- Consists of Systems Engineering through software engineering and organization and management.
- Diversity enhances the chance of successful collaboration.

#### Techniques for Working Effectively

- singleton projects fail unless the person is particulary gifted or the problem is straightforard.
- You need multiple people for anything significant.
- Which means good collaboration skills (commnication)

### Case Study of Collaboration in SRE: Viceroy

- A project which was a monitoring dashboard framework and service.
- Prior to Viceroy:
    - Each team was rewarded for developing its own solution
    - working outside of the team boundary was hard.
    - Led to a burning wreck rather than fix the problem.

#### The Coming of Viceroy

- it began in 2012
- Teams joined forces to create a general solution for all of SRE.
- Joining forces reaped huge benefits.

#### Challenges

- A success, but with difficulties. Mostly due to the cross-site nature of the project.

### Collaboration Outside SRE

- Collaboration is really at its best when it occurs early on in the design phase, ideally before any line of code has been commited.

### Case Study: Migrating DFP to F1

- Conducted weekly meetigs to sync on the project's progress.
- SREs with extensive knowledge of the domain of extracting and processing data at scale, drove the design of infrastructure changes.





