# Chapter 8

Release engineering is a new discipline that is described as building and delivering software.

It requires deep knowledge of: 

- Development
- Configuration Management
- Test integration
- System administration 
- Customer Support

We need to make sure releases are built in a reproducible, automated way so that we can repeat the release and it wasn’t “unique snowflakes”.

*Philosophy*

*Self-Service Model*

Truly automatic releases that only require engineering involvement if problems arise.

*High Velocity*

Frequent releases result in fewer changes between versions. Which helps in making testing, debugging and troubleshooting easier. This can be done through hourly builds.

Some teams use an adopted “Push on Green” model and deploy after passing tests.

*Hermetic Builds*

Identical results on different machines. Builds use known versions of build tools and libraries. It should not rely on any external build environments native to someones machine.



## Enforcement of Policies and Procedures

Layers of security and access control are used to determine who is able to release a project. Includes:

- Approving source code changes
- Release process actions needing to be performed
- New release creations
- Approving builds based on a proposal and subsequent cherry picks
- Deploying a new release
- Making changes to a project’s build configuration
- Almost all changes to the codebase require a code review.

## Continuous Build and Deployment 

## Rapid

Rapid is a system to provide a framework for scalable, hermetic and reliable releases.

## Building

Blaze is used for building as it support multiple languages as well as a way to specify the dependencies for each target. 

## Branching

Code is checked into Main (master) branch. Most projects don’t release directly from the mainline. Bug fixes are submitted to the mainline and then cherry picked into the branch for inclusion in the release. 

## Testing

A continuous test runs against the mainline each time a change is submitted. Helps to detect build and test failures rapidly. 

Uses independent testing environment that runs system-level test on packaged build artifacts. Can be launched manually or from Rapid framework

## Packaging 

Packages are named, versioned with a unique hash and signed to ensure authenticity. 


## Rapid

Uses blueprints that are written in an internal configuration languages are used to defined build and test targets. 


Workflow actions are performed serially or in parallel. 

## Deployment

Uses a dashboard to allow for finer control over rollouts and monitor rollout progress.

## Configuration Management

These can be a potential source of instability, though may seem like a simple problem. 

Use the mainline for configuration, because it decouples binary releases and configuration changes.
Include configuration files and binaries in the same MPM package, because it simplifies deployment because it only requires installing one packages. It does limit flexibility by binding the binary and configuration files so tightly. 

Package configuration files into MPM “configuration packages”, because the can be taken as a snapshot alongside their build to allow for reconstruction using the build ID with the saved configuration at a specific point in time. 

# Chapter 9 - Simplicity

“The price of reliability is the pursuit of the utmost simplicity.” 
C.A.R. Hoare, Turing Award Lecture

Google’s approach for SRE is: “At the end of the day, our job is to keep agility and stability in balance in the system.

## System Stability Versus Agility 

Try to fail once in order to really understand the task in which I am coding for. 

We want a balanced mix of stability and agility. Google has found that reliable process tend to actually increase develop agility.

## The Virtue of Boring

“Boring” is actually a positive attribute when it comes to software! They should follow a script and be predictable in their ability to accomplish business goals. It’s important to consider the difference between essential complexity and accidental complexity. 

## SRE teams should:

- Push back when accidental complexity is introduced into the systems for which they are responsible
- Constantly strive to eliminate complexity in systems they onboard and for which they assume operational responsibility

## I won’t Give Up My Code!

Confrontations over code creation during large-scale purges are not uncommon but cause tensions and release emotions. 

Hundreds of lines of commented code create distractions and confusion (especially as the source files continue to evolve).

Code gated by a flag that is always disabled, is a metaphorical time bomb waiting to explode. Code written is a liability.

## The “Negative Lines of Code” Metric. 

Every line of code changed or added to a project creates the potential for introducing new defects and bugs. A smaller project is easier to understand, easier to test, and frequently has fewer defects. 

## Minimal APIs

“Perfection is finally attained not when there is no longer more to add, but when there is no longer anything to take away.” - Atoined de Saint Exupery

The surface area available to query from an API is simpler for engineers to understand and use.

# Chapter 10 - Practical Alerting from Time-Series Data

Monitoring a very large system is challenging for a couple of reasons:

- The sheer number of components being analyzed
- The need to maintain a reasonably low maintenance burden on the engineers responsible for the system.

Being alerted for single-machine failures is unacceptable because such data is too noisy to be actionable. 

## Time-Series Monitoring Outside of Google 

Collection of data is used to render charts and create alerts using simple arithmetic. Can use historical data to make alert computation as well. 

Collection of Exported Data

Borgmon is configured with a list of targets using one of many name resolution methods. The list is often dynamic, so using service discovery reduces the cost of maintaining it and allows the monitoring to scale.

It records “synthetic” variables for each target in order to identify:

- If the name was resolved to a host and port
- If the target responded to a collection
- If the target responded to a health check
- What time the collection finished

Allows for easy rule writing to detect unavailable taks. 


# Chapter 11 - Being On-Call

On-call activities have historically been performed by dedicated Ops teams whose role is keeping the services in good shape. Google uses SREs who are able to approach problems with a software engineering solution. 

Hires diverse backgrounds for the SRE team. 50% time cap on operational work & at a minimum 50% of the time is allocated to engineering project that further scale the impact of the team through automation.

## Life of an On-Call Engineer

An engineer is around to operate on production systems within minutes according to the paging response times agreed to by the team. 

- 5 minutes for user-facing or highly time-critical services
- 30 minutes for less time-sensitive systems

The response times are related to desired service availability. A user-facing stem must obtain 4 nines of availability in a given quarter (99.99%). The allowed downtime is around 13 minutes. 

It is expected of the on-call engineer to triage the problem and work towards its resolution. 

## Balanced On-Call

The quantity of on-call can be calculated by the percent of time spent by engineers on on-call duties. 
The quality of on-call can be calculated by the numbers of incidents that occur during and on-call shift.

## Balance in Quantity.


Belief in the “E” in “SRE”. 50% of time engineering. The remainder of the time allows for only up to 25% of the time on call and 25% on other types of operational, non-project work. 

Using the 25% on-call rule, it allows for Google to sustain a 24/7 on call rotation. 

If a service entails enough work to justify growing a single-site team, we prefer to create a multi-site team. This comes with many advantageous for two reasons. 

Night shifts have detrimental effects on people’s health, and a multi-site "follow the sun" rotation allows teams to avoid night shifts altogether.
Limiting the number of engineers in the on-call rotation ensures that engineers do not lose touch with the production systems 

## Balance in Quality

An engineer should have sufficient time to deal with any incidents and follow-up activities such as writing postmortems. Dealing with the tasks involved in an on-call incident-root-cause analysis, remediation and follow-up activities like writing a postmortem and fixing bugs takes 6 hours. 

The maximum number of incidents per day is 2 per 12-hour on-call shift. 

## Compensation

Adequate compensation should be on the table for out-of-hours support.

Google offer time-off-in-lieu or straight cash compensation, capped as some proportion of overall salary. 

## Feeling Safe

It’s important to reduce the stress related to being on-call, so that the on-call engineering does not feel fear.

How do we solve or handle this issue on our team?



