# Programming Phoenix Ch 11 pt2 (p 212-227)

Subtitle: "You Don't Need to Hide Your Glee"

## Refresher

What is OTP? [Open Telecom Platform](Open Telecom Platform
http://learnyousomeerlang.com/what-is-otp)

## Designing an Information System with OTP

Goal: our application will have multiple information systems that will query in parallel, accumulate results, and display best matching responses

Systems:  
  - local database
  - pulling from an API like WolframAlpha

### Choosing a Supervision Strategy

Requirements:  
1. Fetch most relevant info in real time across different backends
2. Fetch results in parallel
3. Fault tolerant (aka ignore failures)

Best fit: `:temporary` restart strategy (start children dynamically)

Things we're cool with:  
- Crashing and restarting (handled by supervisor)
- If Phoenix server crashes, we'll crash "all existing info services", so no "leaking resources" (crash everything, then restart, no worries)


### Building a start_link Proxy

Design for multiple backends (Google search, Wolfram, Google Pictures)

When user queries, we'll query all our backends, then send best results to user.

How? **Proxying.**

p 216 describes a lot of functionality in very few lines:

> On line 8, you can see our `start_link` function... That `start_link`
> is our proxy. It calls the `start_link` to the one defined in our
> specific backend. Our InfoSys is a `:simple_one_for_one` worker.
> Whenever our supervisor calls `Supervisor.start_child` for InfoSys, it
> invokes `InfoSys.start_link`. That function then starts the backend to
> compute its own results.


## Building the Wolfram Info System

- `start_link` process is a task
- GenServers hold computation and state
- an `agent` is a GenServer that manages state
- a `task` is a process that executes a given function

`:httpc`: straight HTTP request

Needs some enhancements:  
- detect when backend crashes && don't wait for results
- order the results by relevance score
- set timeout

### Monitoring Processes

Use `Process.monitor` to detect backend crashes

```
iex> pid = spawn(fn -> :ok end)
iex> Process.monitor(pid)
#Reference<0.0.2.2850>
```

### Timing Out

Use `Process.send_after`


### Integrating OTP Services with Channels

Callout: `Task.async/await` makes your system less crash resilient, bc spawned task is linked to the caller.


## Wrapping Up

> • We built a counter that demonstrates how some OTP behaviors work.
> • You looked at several OTP supervision and restart strategies.
> • You saw examples of a full OTP service as GenServer.
> • You learned how tasks wrap behavior and agents encapsulate state.
> • We implemented an information system abstract front end with concrete backends.
> • You learned to fetch WolframAlpha results from an HTTP service and share them with our channels.
